I chose to collect data every time I greeted someone, I collected time, date, any gesture I used, any verbal I spoke, the person's response, and the outcome of the interaction. When greeting someone, I had to make sure to write it down every time which ended up being pretty tedious. Often, I had to pause whatever I planned to do next or the conversation I was having with the person I greeted in order to collect data. I eventually created a Google Form for myself to submit each time because it made the input into a Google Sheet very direct and the conversion to a JSON file easier. In addition, my data is a little incomplete because sometimes I would walk a different way to avoid greeting someone.

I chose to visualize the data as a spiral in order to look like the Milkyway Galaxy because I wanted to play on a theme with the title "Hello World" since it's the traditional first program people write in any programming language and since it was all of the greetings I was doing, it was saying hello to my world. The colors of the lines are also significant because I made sure to look up the different colors of stars based on temperature. The coldest stars are red and the warmest ones are blue, so for this visualization, lines go from low to high number of the category through red to blue.

In this visualization, you can see that I greet many more people individually than I greet repeatedly. In my actual data form, I only repeatedly greeted about 1/3 of the people shown. I honestly didn't expect this because I thought I would only be greeting people I chat with every day and I would have outliers like a shop owner or a security guard.

A crucial compromise I made was to make the visualization about the people I was greeting and not the individual greetings themselves because 1) I had more greetings in the timeframe than I ever expected I would have and 2) I think it was a better analysis for myself to see who I was actually interacting with. This still gave me around 130 data points to work with, so I think this was a crucial compromise that was beneficial to my final visualization. Another compromise I made was to invert the data so those that I greeted the least were on the inside of the spiral. I consider this a crucial compromise because while I would like the center to be like the center of my world, it made more sense that the least greeted should be on the inner part of the spiral because they all jumble together and I could not remember if I actually created those people without the record I made of it.

If this project had a larger scale and not for print, I think I would want to include the time data point as a "z" coordinate in a 3D environment as a way to visualize this data. I think it would be cool to do this one in VR because it could be a more interactive exhibit like when movies look at memories from their childhood.
