
The two texts mention the "context" of data. In your own words, what do they mean and why do they place such high importance to it? Can you think of a situation where the lack of context leads to unintended/unfavorable consequences?

Both authors offer perspectives on using, or working with (big) data. Imagine they had a conversation with each other, in which points would they agree or disagree? Describe what makes you think that way.

Response with regards to the two prompts above:
Context of data implies data about the data in order to provide a fuller, more objective view of the data presented. The use of context is important when presenting data because it affects how viewers, post-analysis, will look at the data presented. For example, in the example given in "Critical Questions for Big Data", data from anonymous college students was used for analysis, but the context for how this information was obtained is important, because the researchers did not consult the students themselves to be used for their research. However, the data was taken from the social media site itself, without the permission of the students. raising ethical concerns. In another situation, I recently went to the Shanghai Jewish Refugees Museum and it was interesting to hear the context as to why so many Jewish people fled to Shanghai, as I had no idea that the US and many other countries blocked the granting of visas to Jewish people seeking asylum. From my American education, I had always learned that the US stepped in to help the Jewish people under persecution, but never that they were denied asylum, example of propaganda from the US, I understand a bit better now.
In general, I think the claims made in "Data Humanism" are backed up by "Critical Questions for Big Data". For example, both articles discuss the importance of the effects of imperfect/incomplete data. Both agree that this imperfect data leads to misunderstanding and misinterpretation of data. Similarly, they both agree that context is very important when it comes to data, in a way to provide more insight. However, they disagree on the need for visualization. "Data Humanism" argues that visualization often over complicates simple data and over simplifies complicated data, while the other article calls for the need to visualize data in order for it to be understood by more people. In this case, I tend to agree with "Data Humanism" as some data does not need to be visualized and therefore the numbers can speak for themselves.



Notes on Data Humanism:
I wasn't aware that Florence Nightingale was know for her data visualization. I always knew her for being a nurse. The humanism data article defintely lost me in some of its metaphors, quite ironically since most of it complains that visualization often complexifies simple data. Based on the data collection I have been doing lately, embracing the complexity has been my life while I navigate my schedule and collect the data. I think her point about clarity coming all at once is really spot on because when I'm at a museum many of the data visualizations will be complex to make sure I read every little detailed caption/writing/label to get all of the information (latest example, Shanghai Jewish Refugees Museum, highly recommend). This part of the manifesto also reminds me of 1984, at the point they're describing the evolution of ads becoming faster and faster, (will find direct quote later). I enjoy her point about starting to draw data visualizations on paper because when doing my designs, I also try to do the same thing so I don't have the restriction of technology from the beginning, hence why I still take handwritten notes from class and for readings. Maybe I should include Giorgia's way of symbolizing why she checked the time for one of my parameters. Does imperfect data also include when you forget to record from a situation?

Notes on Critical Questions for Big Data:
Are people willing to trade personal freedoms for convenience and at what cost to other individuals? Big Data comparison reminds me of the "Fault Between Our Stars" quote "some infinities are larger than other infinities". Big Data is on the interplay of technology, analysis, and mythology. Interesting to see the US criticize China for the monitoring of data when the US has been unable to curb companies from monitoring people's information so closely. Big Data shapes how one can visualize reality. Numbers don't speak for themselves, hence why we have the need to visualize data, goes against what Giorgia said. Interpretation of data does not necessarily mean objectivity of the numbers, as then it would not be an interpretation. My data collection for the Zine project isn't even objective because I choose which data to collect. Unreliable data mirrors what Girogia said, and confirms my previous question of imperfect data can include that which you miss a datapoint. Is the Bangladesh butter example correlation or coincidence because of the large set of data? If people were able to predict uprisings from Twitter data in the past, why was nothing done to prevent the Capitol riots? Didn't know there was an official name for "lurkers" (real name "listeners"). The hose example over complicates what they are trying to say. Small data is more reliable than big data because it is less error-prone. Similar to Giorgia, data needs to be contextualized to be properly understood, just like you can't cherry pick quotes for your essays. Hard to analyze "anonymous" data as context is needed. What limits to the ethical standards of public access to data apply to employers looking at their candidate's social media? "Historically speaking, collecting data has been hard, time consuming, and resource intensive." (how I feel right now about my data collection). Data as a privilege for those at better institutions have a wider access to data?
